---
layout: post
title:  "DEVBLOG #3"
date:   2013-10-19 17:59:00
tags: thesis
---
Recently, I've been working on adding pathfinding and non-player characters to my text engine. As
you can see in the previous two vine posts, rough implementations of these features are now in
place. The player can now type commands like "go to RoomA" or "walk to RoomH" to navigate between
labeled rooms. Rooms that are labeled appear colored on the display. Right now, they do not have
labels shown in the display since I need to import or implement text rendering functionality into
the engine. The three non-player characters walk in sequence between each of the rooms and loop
again when they reach the last.

The walking pattern of the player and NPCs was a happy accident that emerged from the spacing of the
triangular areas and the pathfinding algorithm. We project our intuition of human motion onto the
simple shapes of the screen, as in this youtube video: [Experimental study of apparent behavior.
Fritz Heider & Marianne Simmel. 1944.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n9TWwG4SFWQ)

Also, I swapped out the clunky command-line prompt for a browser-based version that uses [HTML5
WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/WebSockets) and [libwebsockets](https://github.
com/warmcat/libwebsockets). I feel that the fidelity that HTML will bring to the visual design of
the text interface will greatly improve the player experience as I iterate on the design.

Next steps:

* Add items to the game.
* Enable the player to control the player character through a subset of English that includes
logical operations such as: "visit each room until you visit them all," "visit all the red rooms,"
"go to the room with the wastebasket" and "follow the person wearing the hat."
* Experiment with natural language generation code to descriptively narrate the passage of events so
the player no longer needs to look at the display.
* Remove the real-time component of gameplay so that the player advances time by scrolling the text
display to generate more narrative.
